[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I've got a degree in
physics from UC Berkeley,
and I've had a lifelong
fascination with the true
nature of reality.
And I actually believe
that's probably
what propelled me to have some
of the experiences that I had,
which demonstrated that
there are sometimes
these remarkable shifts
in reality that can occur.
And that what we
call quantum jumps
are not just
something that happens
on the quantum so-called
scale, but they
can happen at any level
of physical reality.
I had a fairly normal
stretch of time
in my life when I was
doing normal research.
I had a job in the
banking industry.
When things started
changing was around 1994
when I started really noticing
remarkable changes in reality.
That was following a
Kundalini awakening,
which was a change
in my inner energy.
It seemed like just being
flooded with so much energy
that it was incredible.
And sometimes seeing
so much light,
I felt blinded even
with my eyes shut.
There was so much
light around me.
During it and then also after, I
was noticing that I'd sometimes
be spontaneously aware of things
happening in remote locations,
like spontaneous remote
viewing or 360-degree vision,
that I could see all the way
around me at quite a distance
and outside the
walls of the house.
So it was really startling.
And then ever since then,
I've had the ability
at times to have exactly
the same experience again.
I didn't test it so much by
doing those kinds of things
of going to see if
what I saw was real,
but my daughters would
try to sneak up on me,
and they never could,
especially after that.
It was just impossible,
because I could see them
before they got to me.
[LAUGHS]
I've had other things happen
where if I'm daydreaming,
I've been observed
in two locations.
I know I'm in one place
where I'm daydreaming,
but I'm observed somewhere else.
So there's a bilocation
that can occur.
I'll give you an example.
One morning when my
daughters were quite young,
I needed to go wake them up each
morning so they'd go to school.
And they were too small to
open the curtain in their room.
It was too heavy.
So I would go down
the hall, open--
well, I turned the light on,
and then I'd walk to the window
and I'd say, good
morning, girls.
And I'd open this very heavy
curtain that would then go up.
And one morning, it
was a cold morning.
I didn't want to get
out of bed right away.
And I was still
thinking about dreams
and daydreaming a little bit.
And in my mind, I was
daydreaming that I walked down
the hall, turned
on the light, said,
good morning, girls,
opened the curtain.
And I thought, well, wouldn't
it be great if it was that easy?
But then I hear noises
from their room.
And then they come
running around the house,
and they're like, Mom?
Mom?
Where are you?
They said, Mom, what are
you doing back in bed?
[LAUGHS] I never got out of bed.
[LAUGHS]
And I said, what?
What do you mean?
You just saw me?
And they said, yes.
I said, where was I?
And they said, in our room.
And now I'm jumping out
of bed and I'm running
to go see what happened.
And their light is on, the
window curtain is open,
and nobody else
could have done that.
It only could have been me.
And I know I didn't, so I
experienced that I'm in bed.
They experienced I was there.
So that was what a
bilocation felt like.
And for me, daydreaming and just
sort of wishing I was there.
The other time it
happened, I was
daydreaming and wishing
I was somewhere,
and someone saw me there.
So I've done this twice.
And it feels great.
It's just feeling like, ah,
I wish I could be there.
And then guess what?
Maybe you are.
So after this
experience happened,
I immediately looked up
to see what could explain
these kind of experiences.
And I found out that
throughout history, people have
had these kinds of experiences.
It's really quite normal.
And it's something that
is considered often
something that's typical
for a shaman or someone who
is the healer for a
community, because people
who have that much
energy can help
to be a conduit for
changes in reality.
And so that really
got my attention
about how you can change
reality, or how all of us
do that.
For me, the most
interesting thing
that I learned about physics was
quantum physics at UC Berkeley.
I loved my classes in
that subject matter.
And after my
Kundalini awakening,
I came to realize that a
lot of the answer to what
is the nature of
reality seems to be
held in the mysteries of quantum
physics, which, although we can
work out the mathematics
and we can solve equations
and we can even build atomic
bombs and nuclear power plants,
we don't exactly think the
way quantum physics shows us
that the world really operates.
And what's so wonderful and
mysterious about the quantum
physics and quantum
mechanics is that when
we look to see, what are these
building blocks of matter,
we find that at the very
center of the very smallest
inseparable, indivisible
particle, which
would be like an
electron, if you can't
get any smaller
than that, then that
qualifies as a quantum particle.
Those little
electrons can actually
be observed to be in one place,
and then it's like they vanish.
They can change in energy level
and show up instantly somewhere
else.
And they do other things also.
They can be connected with
one another, entangled.
And when one is affected
and its spin is up
and the other one's spin is
down, if you observe one,
as soon as you make
an observation on one
that's entangled with
another, they both
flip at the same time.
These entanglements
are now being
tested in laboratory
conditions around the world
as people are building
quantum computers.
There's been a race,
like a gold rush
to see how fast we can
find this information
and these new technologies.
So diamonds and
large things that you
can observe in your hands
are being entangled.
They're showing
entanglements that
are holding together at
greater and greater distances.
So we can tell obviously
throughout the universe
there can be an entanglement
with one particle right here
and another particle in an
entirely different galaxy,
great distances away.
So there seems to be no
limitation on the distance.
When we look at space
and time, then we
start recognizing that humans
have a unique experience
with space and time.
And what we think is
true for everything
may not be true for
everything, but may more
be a facet of our
humanity and the way
that we are set up
to observe reality.
The Mandela effect
is a term that
was coined in the year 2010
by a blogger, Fiona Broome.
And she and a bunch
of people noticed
that they remembered
that the gentleman named
Nelson Mandela from South
Africa had died before 2010.
They were all surprised and glad
that he was alive, but really
surprised because they
remembered clearly
that he had previously died.
So this was the first
time that the idea
of a whole bunch of people
remembering something
differently really caught hold.
And it became very popular
on Reddit, that website,
as well as the
Mandela effect website
that Fiona Broome started.
And actually, this
is a phenomenon
that I've been tracking
since the 1990s.
It's what I would
call reality shift.
And that was a term that was
coined by PMH Atwater when
she wrote an earlier book that
I didn't know about at the time.
So I found that the
word reality shift
seemed to explain there
are a bunch of people
that notice someone died,
and now they're alive again.
I noticed Larry Hagman,
and I wrote about him
in my book "Reality Shifts."
He's an actor from
the TV show "Dallas."
So I described that lots of
people noticed he had died,
and then he was alive again.
It's a phenomenon
that's very interesting,
because the closer you are to
Larry Hagman or Nelson Mandela,
the less likely
you are to notice
that particular
individual had died
and then they'd
come alive again.
It's more likely to
happen when it's someone
that you don't see very often.
You don't really
think about them much.
They're on the periphery
of your awareness.
They're not the focal point.
They're off to the side.
So you know about them, and
then when you hear about it,
it's like, wow.
That's big.
So that was the beginning
of this Mandela effect.
It has now exploded in terms
of lots of other examples.
Books, movies, you
name it, products.
[LAUGHS] All kinds of things.
So when it comes
to things like we
notice products changing,
that can be confusing,
because of course, first
you want to make sure,
was it really some
kind of a change?
Did the company make a change?
Once you eliminate
that possibility,
then the only thing
left is that when
you're the one that noticed
the change, unless you
think you're going crazy
or getting forgetful.
Usually, this is not the case.
Usually, people that
notice these things
are very observant.
They're getting an
opportunity to experience
these alternate histories.
And what's happening
is one group
of people would notice it
like with Nelson Mandela.
The ones who don't live in South
Africa like myself and others,
they remember he died
when he was incarcerated.
He was still in jail.
And it seemed such a tragedy.
It seemed very sad.
And then there was
a big hullabaloo.
There were lots of things
going on with his widow
and the government and
trying to work things out
with the estate.
Anyway, it's not
confabulation, which
is what some people say
the Mandela effect is.
They say, well, you're
just making this up.
But why would so many
people make that up?
As far as how it
works, I don't know.
And so I'm not going
to just say, like,
oh, I've got a theory
that explains everything.
Instead, I am more
like a biologist,
back when biologists
would travel the world
to see if they could categorize
what kind of birds and animals
they're observing.
Just like when Charles Darwin
is on the "Beagle," that ship,
and he's traveling
across the world,
that's what I've been doing with
these reality shift examples.
So I'm still
gathering information.
But it's possible that
what we're looking at
is something that's similar
to a holographic multiverse.
So there's a
holographic component
where everything is
connected and it's one,
like the pages in a book.
But each page might signify
another parallel reality, which
could be side by side by side.
And sometimes you can jump
from one page to another.
Where everybody else is,
that gets to the question
of consciousness.
And how can each
of us hold ideas
that might be from
some other reality?
Then we need to start taking a
look at what some people might
call are these
anomalous experiences.
But to me, I think they're
pretty common experiences.
And I think we're
seeing more evidence
of this sort of quantum
behavior in all of biology,
in all of life.
There are an infinity
of possibilities
that at every moment we make a
choice, we're looking at that
and feeling that.
And so people who've had
near-death experiences
or are lucid dreamers or have
had a Kundalini experience,
they're much more keenly
aware of this process,
and they can feel
when they're in it.
And it's pretty
remarkable, because you
can tell that there's a reality
that's always been there.
It's not so much that you're
creating it or calling it
to you.
It's more that you
are recognizing
that the truth of who
you are is consciousness.
And as consciousness, you're
capable of making that jump
into any reality.
Which sounds
incredible, but people
who have come back
from being dead
will sometimes report that's
exactly what they did.
And that's how they were able
to become fully healed when they
were extremely sick before.
Actually, most of us do
experience these quantum jumps.
And we don't think much
of it when it happens.
Sometimes we are just
happy that it happens.
And I'm thinking right
now of the example where
if you need to wake up and
you have trouble waking up
and you will yourself
to get out of bed
on a cold morning,
that willpower,
that moment is an example of it.
That doesn't sound very
impressive, I know.
And then one that's a little bit
more impressive but still not
that impressive-- so it's easy.
These are a little baby
step quantum jumps.
[LAUGHS] Another good
one that's easy to do is
if you're starting to catch a
cold and you can tell yourself,
I can't get sick today--
and I think we've all had that
experience where it's like, no.
This is not happening.
I have to stay well today.
And then you notice, after
I thought that, I felt fine.
A lot of people have
that experience.
And then one that's
scientifically
proven in the
laboratories right now
is where you know for
sure that you did not
get a good night's sleep.
Maybe there was a
neighbor fighting or lots
of noise, traffic accidents.
Something going on that
was so noisy there's
no way you got a
good night's sleep.
It was the worst
night's sleep ever.
In the morning,
all you need to do
is keep telling
yourself over and over
and over again until
you start believing it,
I had a wonderful
night's sleep last night.
And you just keep
repeating that, just
starting to believe
it, convince yourself.
Then what's
scientifically proven
is that you will behave on
all sorts of cognitive tests,
physical tests just the same as
if you'd had that good night's
sleep, and you'll feel better.
So these are things
that are easy.
On the other extreme--
because I like to look
at the entire bandwidth,
the whole breadth
and depth of it.
At the other extreme that's
going to start sounding crazy,
I've heard from so many people
that have instantaneously
been teleported to
safety when they've
been in an accident, when
their car is about to crash.
They don't know what
happened, but somehow they
got thrown clear of the vehicle.
It's as if they went
right through it.
Or maybe the oncoming
vehicle never hit their car,
but now is on the other side,
and there never was an impact,
never was a collision.
This is basically
quantum tunneling,
and it's happening with a
Mack truck and a car, vehicles
that weigh thousands and
thousands of kilograms.
It is extremely heavy.
And so there's no
way to explain that.
And these things happen a lot.
There are lots and lots
of examples of that,
as well as instantaneous
healing of everything
from broken bones, which are
not supposed to heal instantly,
to cancer going away.
When we look at what
the healers are doing,
they're able to enter a
dream with their client
or with a person.
And when I say dream, that's
recognizing that all of reality
is like a dream.
And this is what you hear
if you study the Upanishads
and some Indian writing.
They'll tell you,
reality is a dream.
So when you enter the dream with
someone, then you share that.
And you can enter the dream and
help the person find that dream
reality where they are healthy.
And that is exactly what
healers are able to do,
is to go there with someone.
And then when they come
back on that journey--
and it might be with drumming
or it might be with chanting.
These are what indigenous
peoples the world over
have used as a--
these are ancient
technologies that
are very effective at
implementing quantum jumps.
I think the reason
most people don't
think that these
things are happening
or don't think they're observing
them is primarily because they
don't believe it's possible.
That's the first thing.
And secondly, there's an
open-mindedness issue,
because once you believe,
well, it's possible,
then you need to even be
even more open-minded so
that those kind of
experiences could happen.
You wouldn't think it
would make a difference,
but it really does, because
our brains and our minds
are set up to observe what we
train ourselves to look for.
And if we're not looking for
these kinds of quantum jumps,
reality shifts, Mandela
effects, then we
don't really notice them.
Or we assume, first of all,
that we've made a mistake.
We think, well, maybe
I'm misremembering that.
Maybe there's some reason that
when I talk about my childhood
with my family,
they tell a story
that I know didn't happen, and
they seem so convinced it did.
We just dismiss those signs
and those pieces of evidence
that would suggest
that we're all
experiencing
alternate histories,
and that it's quite normal.
So when people assume that
we're just going through
like watching a
movie on the screen,
and we want the illusion that
that movie is flowing evenly,
and it's just as
good as real life.
Actually, we're watching
frames in a movie flashing.
So it's a lot more
like stair steps,
like taking step by
step by step by step.
I believe that's also
what nature is doing.
And so we'll be able to start
seeing more evidence of it
by recognizing that this
can and does happen.
And we're seeing
things that I would
expect to find such as
when scientists have a bias
to begin with to expect
a certain result,
that's the result
they tend to get.
Some of our
Nobel-winning scientists
are noticing that too.
They tend to think that there's
some sort of observer bias,
but I'm considering it's a
deeper problem, that actually
we can change results just by
expecting something different.
And then we can do
that on any scale.
I like people who are
skeptical about this,
because I think that's
good to be skeptical,
to be a good skeptic.
And open-minded but
questioning, like, OK.
This doesn't make any sense.
This is not what I learned.
So how can this
possibly be true?
And for them, I would suggest
looking at placebo studies.
Placebo is a word that
means, I shall please.
And in World War II, there
were doctors in England
that were running
out of medication,
and so they would basically
give the soldiers who
were in a great deal of pain
an injection with just water
and some salt in it.
So it's just a saline solution.
And they would notice in
large numbers of people,
they would feel better.
The doctors wanted
to do something.
When they run out of
medicine on the front line,
that's a terrible feeling.
So this is why, if
you're wondering, well,
that sounds unethical, why would
doctors do that, that's why.
And right now in surveys
that are conducted
across all of the hospitals in
America, a majority of doctors
absolutely will prescribe
placebos for their patients,
because sometimes they
don't have anything
that they know for
sure will work,
and so they say,
well, take this.
We think it will help.
And the very fact that that's
happening, that there's
this placebo effect, which
benefits some 20% to 30%
of the people that take it--
and in fact, that
number is going up.
It's been increasing.
So when you look at
the placebo effect--
and it's not just sugar pills
and salt solution injections.
It's also a placebo surgery,
and just sometimes instruction
given from a person to
someone taking a test--
you've got this, you're
going to do great--
the test score will go up 30%.
So we're typically seeing
about a 30% improvement.
Then of people like
myself who have
faith in the placebo effect
or faith in a greater power,
then you can get
results up to 70%.
70%.
And that is so much
more than pretty much
any other pharmaceutical
can claim.
That's what I invite skeptics
to look at and study.
Take a look at what Harvard
is doing with their placebo
research center,
because skeptics often
want to know, where can I
go to look at a university
or someone I can trust to
see what kind of results
they're getting?
Someone who's
doing real studies.
They're not falsifying results.
They're using a gold standard or
a platinum standard with regard
to double-blind studies.
And that would be Harvard,
and other universities
doing similar work.
Each of us is basically
the center of our universe,
and we do come together so
we can feel the consciousness
of others with us.
But we're capable of actually
experiencing almost anything
that we totally believe in.
And if people doubt
this and they say,
well, that can't be
right, because otherwise I
would have won the lottery,
and so on and so forth,
that gets into the energy
body again and the fact
that we're not
totally in our brains,
as much as people
wish they were.
We think with our hearts.
We think with our guts.
And when you bring this
whole thing together,
then you'll start noticing
you've got subconscious
beliefs, and you get
subconscious thoughts
that may be much more
powerful than anything
you think that you want.
So when you're
choosing a reality
that you want to go into,
then you're acting as if.
This is something that our
American psychologist William
James talked about.
And you can absolutely
program it like a GPS exactly,
just knowing that
if I was successful,
then I would need
to have this done.
I would need to be saying this.
I would need to wear this
and have these friends
and do these things.
And so if you start
doing all of that,
then you can definitely start
moving into that reality.
We can have very confusing
beliefs about some things
such as money.
And I wrote a book about
that, "High Energy Money,"
to help people understand
what those kind of thoughts
might be that could
be tripping them up
so they could take a look at
the thought and then reverse it.
Usually, if you've got something
that's holding you back
like money is evil,
you might as well
believe the opposite of
that, because it's just
a random belief.
It doesn't mean it's
true to just believe
like, oh, money is evil.
So you can flip that
one around and say,
money helps us do good
things in the world.
Money can be the key to
sharing energy with others.
So it's a way of
setting yourself
free from judging
things in ways that
are more representative
of our own shadow side
than what's really
so-called out there.
This is a good question.
How does consciousness
relate to the material world?
Well, what I've noticed
is that consciousness
seems to be preeminent.
It's the dominant thing.
It's always there.
And at least that's
my observation,
because I am consciousness.
So that's my human experience.
I don't know what it's
like to not be conscious.
But it's one of those things.
How do you define consciousness?
That's important to know
what the description of it
is before you start
looking at, how
does it interact with matter?
And the truth is, that's
still an open question.
So even the experts in
the field of consciousness
are arguing about, well,
what exactly is it?
Which is not where
physicists wanted to go.
They were hoping that
physics could be something
that's completely measurable.
The idea of consciousness
is not measurable,
and there's no way to predict
the presence, absence,
or a change in consciousness
in any given experiment.
Yet now with the
observer, consciousness
has entered the picture.
Consciousness is more
than the neurons.
So when we try to do the neuron
mapping like they're doing
and they can map the
brain and the networks,
and then supposedly we should
know everything, but we don't.
It's more like seeing that
you can see the roads,
but you don't know
the traffic patterns,
and you don't
understand why things
are happening the way they do.
And memories are not
stored in a place.
It's not like, oh, there's the
neuron that stored that memory.
They move around.
So when we look at the
way the brain functions,
it's very disappointing
in terms of finding a way
to lock consciousness into
matter that has not succeeded.
The reason science cannot prove
that consciousness is produced
by the brain is we don't know
how to measure consciousness.
And science can only
handle what it can predict.
It can only-- which
means you have
to be able to measure something.
You have to be able to tell if
it's there, if it's changing,
if it's gone.
And if you can't do
that-- we still can't
do that with consciousness.
We rely entirely upon asking
someone, do you feel conscious?
And we can look at things
like, are they awake
or are they asleep?
That kind of thing.
We can look at brainwave states.
We can measure some things,
but it doesn't really
get to the heart of the issue.
That's not surprising
to people who
have been meditating for
centuries like the Tibetan
Buddhists.
They understand consciousness
at a different level,
because they're going
into it through meditation
and direct experience.
So I think that's more the
right way to explore this.
What I'm noticing about
material world and consciousness
is that to the degree
that we believe
the material world is
real-- this is really
important-- we buy into that.
We start thinking, OK.
This is real.
Gravity works.
My world is the
way I think it is,
and my assumptions are true.
We're social animals,
so we collectively
share consciousness.
And this is a big idea too.
How is consciousness
something that sometimes we
feel that we have a
collaborative feeling?
Where does this feeling
of all of these emotions
like love and these
feelings of forgiveness
that we have or gratitude?
These are very
powerful emotions.
So when we combine our
consciousness with our family,
our friends, our
colleagues, and we
don't want to go too
far away from what
we know everybody
would agree with,
then we're kind of anchored
down to a certain level
of what's possible.
We can let go of that when we're
in a life-or-death situation
or when we just want to
explore consciousness
through something like lucid
dreaming or meditation.
Then and only then can you
actually make that big jump
to something else.
What's really happening
is you're stepping
outside of the situation.
So what always
happens when you do
a quantum jump is recognizing
that you are consciousness.
What we tend to do is
get stuck in believing
we're in a situation,
like we have a problem.
That person won't let us do
something or something bad
happened, and we think
we're in this little world.
And to make a quantum
jump, we need to step back.
You need to recognize
that you are consciousness
and that you're
observing all this.
You have feelings,
you have thoughts,
but you're not your thoughts
and you're not your feelings.
So it's becoming mindful
and then becoming energized.
And then the third
step is exactly that.
It's just choose where you want
to go next, and accept that
as the dream that
you wish to live.
That's the dream you
want to come true.
So the most
important thing to do
when you are going on the
path, this journey of reality
shifting and quantum
jumping, I believe
is to become more
spiritual, actually.
[LAUGHS] To become
a better person.
It's absolutely important
to do that, to be more kind.
Because what happens
if you don't do
that is you're disregarding
some of yourself,
and it's going to pull you off
course, absolutely every time.
So even if you're selfish and
you think, I just want good--
I want a good life, I want
a good material world,
I don't care about spirituality,
you can try it that way.
I mean, I don't
recommend anybody try it
that way, because
things tend to go,
I believe-- and I've seen things
go wrong, because what happens
is those parts of ourselves
that are subconscious, that
are maybe greedy and so
forth, if you haven't
come to a place of
acceptance and forgiveness
for yourself and
others, you'll be
going through the
same cycles of events.
And they're usually not good.
So you need to clean things up.
One way, as we were talking
about how to make that quantum
jump, is to step back.
And one way to
instantly step back
is to feel an emotion
such as gratitude.
Because instantly,
then you can feel it.
When you're feeling
true gratitude,
it's just this amazing
experience for me.
It just feels like I can
feel my energy expanding.
I feel more at peace.
The things that have been
troubling me seem like they're
not so important.
There's a tremendous change
that occurs energetically,
as well as with the focus of
my attention, which goes from--
usually being humans, we're
looking at, what's wrong?
What's not going right?
What's the thing that's a
little bit off right now?
We tend to focus on that.
But instead, by
bringing your attention
back to what's really good,
what are the blessings?
What are the things that
mean the most to us,
that we're grateful for?
Then we get this boost of energy
and also a boost of a focus.
It definitely brings
us back on track.
And forgiveness does this too.
Some people have trouble
with forgiveness,
but if you can do it,
that's a good one.
Forgive yourself
and forgive others.
Forgiveness can be
easier when you recognize
like in "A Course of Miracles"
that there's nothing to it,
that everybody is already a
pure being of consciousness
and a pure being
of light and love,
and that's who we really are.
And we tend to forget that.
So sometimes people have trouble
really feeling like, really?
That seems-- that can be
a stretch for some people
to go that far.
But if you can do
it, it's wonderful,
because the benefit
is phenomenal.
Because what happens
when we don't forgive,
we don't notice
that we're getting
pulled down with these
negative feelings of something
went wrong.
And if only that hadn't
happened, if only
they didn't do that.
But when you let go of it,
it's also very expansive
to go into forgiveness
and gratitude and love.
Those are very powerful.
One thing we can do is
putting yourself back
into the center of the
story, because sometimes we
get caught thinking
we're a victim
or we think something
has happened to us.
And the way to
break free of that,
it's basically a drama
triangle, because then it's
just playing games and
pretending that you're
wearing the role of victim and
someone else is the villain,
and there might be a rescuer.
But when you realize, that
doesn't make any sense.
I'm going to retrain
my subconscious that I
can do whatever I want to do.
I can be the hero
in my own story.
But not the kind of hero
where I'm fighting evil.
Just recognizing that I can
bring about changes that I
want to see in the world.
I can be that
change in the world.
And when you really feel like
you're doing what you love,
then you can come fully alive.
And you'll find people
that are excited to be
with you, doing that too.
This idea of shifting the Earth
with shared intent, with shared
consciousness, and the reason
I keep calling it dreaming
is because when we
think intention,
we tend to stay in our heads.
When we dream, we dream
with our fullness of being.
And in our dreams
we can take action,
which we can then feel
and give voice to,
and then we can think.
And so that's the way to bring
about the biggest changes
that we need to make.
And so sharing a
dream is actually
the way to transform the world.
And sharing a positive
dream, looking
at how good things
can get, which
is a question that I
like to leave open-ended
so we don't assume that
we know what it is.
And that way, you know
that good can prevail,
that good will be there.
And it matches the
fact that we live
in such a fine-tuned
universe right now,
which is ridiculously unlikely.
So some people say this is
proof that God exists, and I
tend to think so too.
I also think that we can
definitely see evidence
in that, that we're already
winning against whatever
may seem like it's impossible
or unsolvable or too
difficult or too evil.
The idea that what
resists persists
is really central to this idea
of dreaming a new reality.
If you're fighting something,
it seems like it gets stronger
or it hangs on--
in America, we have a war on
drugs that never seems to end.
We have so many wars,
so many conflicts.
And it seems like every
time we look around,
there's a new enemy.
But that's not really
the way to move forward
in a positive manner.
The way to move
forward positively
is to find what you are
grateful for, what you love,
and to bring more
of that into being.
So it's very obvious,
but it's something
that I think we're learning.
And this is part of that
global awakening right now.
I believe we do have
free will, but then this
comes back to that
question of consciousness
and who am I, which is
like the ultimate question.
So on some levels, if I
factor in the infinite,
eternal part of
myself that was here
before I was born, that
will be here after I die,
then that part of me has
an awareness of what's
going on that to me
in my day-to-day life
might feel like I'm living
a path of fate or something,
like things are meant
to be a certain way.
But we definitely do
experience free will every time
we can make a choice and choose.
Like, all these realities exist.
Let's try that one.
Then we can give it a try.
And when it comes
to neuroscience,
what scientists are
noticing strangely,
it gets back to that
question of time,
because we're noticing
sometimes that we've
made a decision
before we've even
felt the input to our senses,
which seems impossible.
But as far as my
own experience, I
feel like we do have free
will and that it matters.
I think that's the most
important thing right now
for us as humans to deal with
all the problems on the planet
and to help each
other, is to recognize
the level of expansiveness
that we can attain
and the way that we can play
with these different realities.
And also share consciousness.
As we were talking about
healing someone else
and sharing a dream, we
can pull each other up
by sharing positive
dreams with one another.
And that can be
extremely empowering
and can pull us out of
things that look impossible.
We don't live in a
linear timeline at all.
I think that is one of the
biggest things for people
to realize, is that you're
able to see what you might call
a miracle in a moment.
Anything could happen.
And to recognize that
there's always a possibility
for phenomenal transformation.
And people who have
been aware of this--
and even if you're skeptical,
you can still get this to work.
So next time you're in
a difficult situation--
maybe the car is out of
gas or you're stranded
or you have no money
or you lost your purse,
or whatever happened,
some sort of bad news--
just take a moment.
Relax.
Meditate.
Center yourself.
Breathe.
And then just imagine, well,
how good could this get?
And imagine, just
like it's a dream,
like you're going
into that daydream
and you're going to
walk into that reality.
And so many people have
had phenomenal success,
doing exactly that.
And I share stories
about this in my book
"Quantum Jumps," because it
happens to so many people.
Even if you're skeptical,
even if you think, well,
that's ridiculous,
how could this
possibly work, this is
impossible-- the car's
out of gas, my wallet's
gone, whatever.
They've told me no,
they said they lost
my order, whatever happened.
But if you just
imagine, well, what
if there's just some chance
that maybe things are OK?
There's a slim chance somehow.
Just believe in it.
Dream it.
And the dreaming is
so important, again,
because you're activating
the fullness of your being.
The trouble that some
people have with intention
is they're just thinking
with their heads,
and that doesn't work.
So you have to really get
a full embodiment of it,
of all of you.
People who feel like
they're absolutely stuck,
they are perfect proof of
this process in action.
That's true.
And it's true for
all of us, anybody
who is a human right now.
And that's me too, you know?
Nobody's perfect.
We all get to some point
where we believe, like,
well, this is too much,
or this is too difficult.
But at least I
know on some level
that that's not really true.
It's just that I've
grown up in a society,
on a world, on a planet
where that's been
the prevailing belief so far.
But I believe that that's
changing right now,
and more and more
people are waking up.
[MUSIC PLAYING]